hey guys what's up I'm gonna try to make
a short video that's actually short for
a change um you know this is continued
controversy about what I have to say
about the domestication of animals and
what the implications are for what you
should actually do with pets that you
own what I said recently in disclaiming
that I did not feel that my critics were
worth addressing was very specific
people have overlooked what I what I
actually said which was that I did not
feel any of those responses addressed by
original argument address what I
actually had to say and therefore there
was no point am I just reiterating am I
just repeating what I had already said
in earlier videos so again you can go
through the past history of this channel
and see what I actually had to say what
I actually believe on this issue and
this continues to be a problem so I mean
unnatural vegan presents herself as
endlessly erudite but at no stage has
she shown any sincere interest in what
my position as she was nor did she ask
me about I mean if there sites you want
me to clarify she could have asked me to
clarify but I feel that a natural vegan
like many other overly emotional pet
owners they simply here this person has
dared to criticize the fact that I own a
dog or the fact that owned a cat and
then emotion overrides reason and they
they freaked out basically they're not
responding to what I should have said
it's just that actually made so me in my
recent video on this my most recent
video the examples I gave were for
instance the difficulty of providing a
penguin with an environment in a zoo or
in a habitat sorry any species
conservation effort trying to provide
penguins with habitat that resembles
what they would have in the wild it can
be very expensive it can be very
difficult but my point that's been made
consistently through all of my videos is
that when we take the wilderness as a
criterion for what is adequate for what
is moral in providing to an animal that
is in our care we come to a completely
different set of conclusions about what
to do with whether it's dogs cats
penguins lions what-have-you now can
there's nothing mysterious about it
there's nothing hard to understand about
it at no point did I say that people who
owned again what did I actually say
there's example given at length about
someone who won't rat
and they were rescued rabbits but in
thinking about this issue this is
someone who understood what I said of
thinking about how the rabbits would
live in the wild this vegan she adjusted
the way she was keeping the rabbits to
make it closer to me get the same way
that the enclosure for penguins at the
zoo is not going to be perfect or if you
make an enclosure for polar bears or
something questioning how we treat
captive animals in general in terms of
what would be their natural way of
living in the wild and of trying to
provide them with a life closer to what
they would have in a wild for that
viewer of mine that led to you know
decisive steps she didn't release her
rabbits into actually living in the wild
but she took steps to provide them with
an environment that was closer that gave
them a little bit more of a natural
habitat where they could see the Sun and
you know dig in the earth and chew on
grass or what have you so I mean all of
my arguments in this have admitted and
have not only means they have emphasized
they've drawn attention to the
contradictions and complexities and
difficulties we get into whether it's
keeping Tigers captive or keeping cats
and you know it's true on a very
fundamental level I reject for it for
example the assumption that unnatural
vegan presents that we can simply use as
a philosophical concept the idea of a
good home of providing a good home to a
dog or a cat
because when she says that she is using
a human centered standard so this is
speciesism and it's anthropocentrism
there are a lot of problems with this
what does it mean to provide a good home
to a penguin we take as a standard how
they would live in the wild and then we
see how close we can come to that you
know the zoo has a limited budget or if
it's a government rescue program these
penguins have had to be scooped up
because their habitat was destroyed some
situation so you're responsible for
taking care of a bunch of penguins the
fact that you are going to provide them
with a good home is not a moral
justification for castration it's not a
moral justification for training them
for domesticating them to live on your
couch as your companion as your as your
pet as your entertainment
none of that is morally justified by the
act of rescue
so my ethical and pragmatic approach to
this is fundamentally different from
other vegans so yes to me it is it is
stupid to hear someone who is a vegan
justify whether it's buying food buying
dead cows to feed to a cat and I talked
about that at length or if they justify
the domestication itself because this
animal was acquired through rescue so I
said if you are in the position of
rescuing a bunch of penguins how is that
justified how are you going to treat
them for one thing you have to take
their life in the wild as a criterion
try to provide something resembling that
and of course secondly it's justified
because you're trying to preserve the
species you're trying to eventually
reintroduce them into into wilderness
into wild habitat and that's the
difference between a legitimate rescue
of penguins and a zoo or a circus or
someone who owns animals for their own
pleasure as so-called companion animals
okay so the place I did present a
nuanced argument I think it is either
insincere or inept for a natural vegan
to pretend that I was recommending
people simply take house cats and
introduce them into the wild immediately
I don't even recommend that about
penguins if you recommend that about
Tigers all of the examples I use
discussed at length this adds up to many
many minutes now you know presents a
nuanced view of the world but the sense
in which it's not nuanced is that yes I
am willing to look at the status of a
dog in the wild whether it's a feral dog
or a genuinely wild dog a dog that's
never been domesticated in its history
and say look that is how this animal
lives in nature and we are depriving it
of its dignity we are depriving of its
freedom if we castrate it train it break
it make it into a servant to human
beings make it into entertainment for
human beings I don't know the same
vegans who will say it's immoral to ride
a horse for some reason do not see it as
being immoral to really harm a cat or a
dog to try to turn it into a toy and a
plaything that lies on your couch while
you watch TV or that entertains your
children all right that's not what a cat
wants to be is and what a dog wants to
be that dog wanted to have its own sex
life have its own children it wanted to
explore the wilderness hunt etc now can
you provide that
probably not can you provide it for a
lion or penguin but yeah ethically this
is a completely different paradigm I'm
looking forward to the future of vegans
we're talking about what 200 year
transition we're not talking about
overnight this kind of change I mean it
seems to be completely insincere for a
natural vegan to question well how are
people taking my advice onboard I've
already talked about that I already
talked about one viewer who looked at
and correctly understood the analysis
that I set out and who looked at her own
rabbits and thought how can I provide
some kind of habitat some kind of
experience that resembles nature a
little bit and yes exposing animals to
natural habitat exposes them to risk
expose them to risk of disease Amino if
a cat is killing and eating rats the cat
can get all kinds of illnesses that it
wouldn't get from eating a completely
antiseptic and hygienic factory produced
food product you know what yes it's true
you're you're exposed into the risk of
predation of predators killing them of
disease and what-have-you but you're
also giving them a shot at having a life
that has a shred of dignity because it
has a shred of a resemblance to what
they would be in the wilderness so this
began with long before it's augment
unnatural vegan I was talking about the
fact that vegans had tried to make a
symbol out of piglets the cute piglet
and arguing look you can take a pig you
can chop its balls off you can castrate
it domesticate it train it you can force
a pig to become a cute plaything for
human beings and what I was saying was
no for me domestication of animals is
exploitation of animals this is
something I regard as immoral this is
something I regard as psychological and
healthy even if you say you love the pig
and I feel that many vegans are in
denial about the reality of how a pig
lives in the wild of what the natural
relationship is between a human being
and a wild boar when you meet a wild
boar or a feral pig in the jungle okay
said this before feral pigs eat kill and
eat large mammals a wild boar will
gladly kill and eat a wild deer put it
into Google Image Search you're gonna
see a ton of images of wild boars
killing and eating deer it is shocking
it is studying because we think of pigs
as cute as harmless as domesticated
whether it's on farms or in your living
room but I'm telling you that is not
what a pig is whether it's a pig
or a penguin we have to be willing to
start with the criterion of the wild the
status of the animal the wilderness and
then think through in the future what's
our role as human beings in managing
these animals the reality is Canada is
an enormous country with huge amounts of
empty open space but still even for
polar bears wild polar bears human
beings are very actively involved in
managing them and trying to make sure
they don't starve to death
looking at their distribution looking at
the distribution of the prey they rely
on trying to manage climate change the
reality is wild animals in the 21st
century all are indirectly impacted by
human beings including wildlife
management okay I accept that I'm
completely cognizant of that right so I
mean the question of in the next 200
years how is the relationship between a
human being and and a dog or a cat and a
change this is an issue I'm sincerely
engaged with as a vegan and the question
of how our relationship with bears and
tigers and lions is going to change is
also one I'm really concerned about I do
not feel the two hundred years from now
in the future we should have zoos or
circuses okay I also do not feel that we
should be castrating dogs to turn them
into toys and playthings I don't think
we should be training dogs to live a
life that is completely unnatural for
them so they can provide so-called
companionship for us or so that we can
experience love where they can
experience our love No that to me is
unnatural and maybe that's suitable
enough because her name is after all a
natural vegan